--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Please direct all queries, error reports, suggestions for
     improvement and other comments to Feliks Kluzniak at

         feliks.kluzniak@utdallas.edu

..................


This directory contains interpreters and/or translators for various
extensions of logic programming.

The code has originally been written in Eclipse Prolog.  No attempt has
at that time been made to make it portable to different versions of
Prolog, since such porting should be possible with only moderate
effort. The main difficulties are:

1. Use has been made of the "string" data type that can be used in
   Eclipse for input, output, naming files etc. etc.

2. In order to avoid name conflicts, interpreted programs are stored in
   a special module.  The module facility of Eclipse is quite advanced,
   and different from that found in some other Prolog systems.
   To port, one could simply remove all references to modules (in
   particular, occurrences of "@interpreted") and either live with the
   possibility of name conflicts, or solve the problem in a different
   way (e.g., by adding "i_" at the beginning of each interpreted
   predicate).

3. Eclipse has many convenient built-ins that might not be present in
   other Prolog systems (and that might, therefore, require
   implementation in Prolog in terms of the available built-ins).

(It should be noted that in principle porting is not necessary.  Eclipse
is freely available from  http://www.eclipse-clp.org .)


Most of the code has then been (somewhat hastily) converted to Sicstus
Prolog.  Conversion to other Prolog systems may require some work.  In
particular, Sicstus Prolog's module facility is used to store
interpreted programs (watch for the prefix "interpreted :" in the code).
If you don't have access to such a facility, you will either have to
live with the possibility of name clashes (not recommended!), or just
store the interpreted clauses as facts of a dynamic predicate, say
rule/2 (i.e., access via "rule( Head, Body )" instead of via
"clause( Head, Body )"), which might mean a slight decrease in
efficiency due to loss of indexing on the first argument of a clause
head.

NOTE: At the time of this writing Eclipse tends to behave quite
      unreasonably when presented with cyclic terms.  It is therefore
      advisable to use the Sicstus version for coinductive programs,
      especially when they are coupled with tabling.  Predicates that
      are both coinductive and tabled cannot be run at all.



..................


Here is a short description of the sub-directories:

coind
-----
Directory "coind" contains "colp", a simple interpreter for "co-logic
programming", i.e., logic programming that allows coinductive
interpretation of selected predicates.

It also contains "translate_colp", a simple translator that will
transform a program that includes coinductive predicates to a
straightforward logic program (conceptually, the translated version can
be seen as a result of partially evaluating the program together with
the interpreter).

The subdirectory "examples" contains a handful of simple examples to
exercise the interpreter and the translator.


general
-------
Directory "general" contains utility code that is used by the other
programs.


tabling
-------

Directory "tabling" is intended to contain interpreters that illustrate
various approaches to logic programming with tabling.

All tabling interpreters can be used to run programs that mix tabling with
coinduction, as long as they contain no predicates that are both tabled and
coinductive.  To run such a program one should first translate it with
"translate_colp" (see the description of directory "coind").

The interpreter "dra" implements tabling by using "Dynamic Reordering of
Alternatives".  This interpreter can handle programs that use not only
tabling, but also co-logic programming (even when the same predicate is both
coinductive and tabled).

The subdirectory "examples" contains a handful of simple examples to
exercise the interpreters.  In particular, sub-subdirectory "LTL" contains a
version of Gopal Gupta's elegant interpreter for Linear Temporal Logic, as
well as some examples to exercise it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
